PM Fasal Bima Yojana
The Pradhan Mantri fasal bima yojana (PMFBY)  is an insurance service for farmers for their yields  aims to provide a comprehensive insurance cover against failure of the crop thus helping in stabilising the income of the farmers, Stabilizing the income of farmers to ensure their continuance in farming,Encouraging farmers to adopt innovative and modern agricultural practices The scheme covers all Food & Oilseeds crops and Annual Commercial/Horticultural Crops for which past yield data is available and for which requisite number of crop cutting experiments are being conducted under General Crop Estimation Survey. The scheme is implemented by empanelled general insurance companies. Selection of Implementing Agency is done by the concerned State Government through bidding. The scheme was earlier compulsory for loanee farmers availing crop loan /KCC[clarification needed] account for notified crops and voluntary for other others, but has been made voluntary since 2020 when reforms in the scheme were introduced.[2] The scheme is being administered by Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare. All the farmers growing notified crops in a notified area during the season who have insurable in the crop are eligible.Voluntary coverage: From 2020 Kharif onwards the enrollment is made 100% voluntary. Coverage of crops:Oil seeds,Food crop,Annual Commercial / Annual Horticultural crops.In addition for perennial crops, pilots for coverage can be taken for those perennial horticultural crops for which standard methodology for yield estimation is available. The benefits of this scheme are mentioned as under: Comprehensive insurance coverage for Kharif and Rabi crops.Add on the coverage available for specific circumstances.Optional for farmers, both loanee and non-loanee.Stability in the income of farmers so that they can continue farming. Applicant farmers have to visit the official portal.  In case of crop loss, farmers are required to file a claim with the insurance company within the prescribed time frame, which is generally within 72 hours of the occurrence of the loss. List of concerned person/company details on the portal and click in "Report Crop Loss" or download the app and report crop loss.
Standup India; Loans for scheduled castes, scheduled tribes an