Summary
the vision of Mahatma Gandhi NREGA is to enhance the livelihood security of rural households across the country by providing at least 100 days of guaranteed wage employment in a financial year. the scheme encourages a sense of community and collective responsibility by strengthening Panchayat Raj institutions.
the scheme seeks to reach youth from all regions of India. it seeks to reach youth from all regions of the country. a select 25% of Agniveers demonstrating exceptional performance may be offered the opportunity to re-enlist in a regular capacity.
ayushman Bharat adopts a continuum of care approach. the scheme aims to undertake path breaking interventions. the aim is to address the primary health care needs of the entire population.
"'Pradhan Mantri Ujjwala Yojana' is a flagship scheme. it is aimed at making clean cooking fuel such as LPG available to rural and deprived households. the unclean cooking fuel causes deaths which are mostly due to non-communicable diseases including heart disease, stroke, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, and lung cancer."
scheme is being administered by the Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare. all farmers growing notified crops in a notified area during the season are eligible.
"loans for scheduled castes, scheduled tribes and women entrepreneurs can be applied online. launched by the government of india in 2016 to promote entrepreneurship. scheme aims to provide loans between Rs.10 lakhs and Rs.1 crore for setting up greenfield enterprise."
beneficiary family should not own a pucca house in his/her name or in the name of any member of his/her family in any part of India. the mission addresses urban housing shortage among the EWS/LIG and MIG categories including the slum dwellers.
scheme was launched by prime minister Narendra Modi on 22 January 2015. it currently provides an interest rate of 8.2%[3] and tax benefits. the account can be opened at any Indian Post office or branch of authorized commercial banks.
the scheme aims to expand affordable access to financial services. the applicant should be an Indian national.
the Pradhan Mantri Gram Sadak Yojana (PMGSY-I) is a programme to provide rural connectivity. the programme will provide all-weather access to eligible unconnected habitations with a population of up to 500(Census 2001) in plain area and 250 and above in Special category States.
